Opening the Door to a Pure Realm
An Aspiration Towards Abhirati
by Katok Situ Chökyi Gyatso

di né shar gyi chok rol sangye shying
In the eastern direction there is a buddhafield,
ngönpar gawa yönten gyatsö né
Manifest Joy, a realm of oceanic qualities,
drimé drima tamché yong dralwé
Where the immaculate tathāgata King Akṣobhya,
deshyin shekpa mi truk gyalpo shyuk
Who is entirely freed from all impurity, resides.

lhar ché jikten kün na gönpö ku
With the form of one who protects the whole world including the gods,
ngotsar tsenpé ötong rab barwa
He blazes with the myriad lights of marvellous signs and marks.
tsultrim pungpo gyatsö pal gyi dul
Composed, with the splendour of ocean-vast elements of discipline,
zöpa gyatso khyepar pakpé chö
He manifests the qualities of exceptionally sublime forbearance.
ngöngyur tob chü wangpo gendün tsok
A lord of the ten powers together with his saṅgha assembly,
drangmé shying dul jewé jukpachen
As numerous as atoms in realms beyond number.

kün la güpé yi kyi soldeb shing
Before them all, I pray with a mind filled with devotion.
di né changchub bardu kyab chi na
As I take refuge in you from now until I attain awakening,
dak la zang ngen lé kyi drel tok kün
May all those with whom I have a karmic connection, good or bad,
tsé yi dujé tongwar gyurpa na
As soon as they leave behind the constituents of this life,
dorjé ku yi nangwé ö kyi dul
Be touched by the light of your radiant vajra form,
tramo rek kyang nyam takwar dö né
And may even the slightest such contact dispel the myriad miseries
dukngal jewé tsok nam sal dzé do
Of the wearisome and oppressive intermediate state.
chikhé tsam jor nyönmong kün gakpé
With the cessation of all mental afflictions at the moment of death,
puljung gelek rabjam gyatsö ter
May the light of this pure realm, which is a treasury
dakpé shying gi nangwa shar gyur chik
Of infinitely vast virtue and perfect goodness, emerge.
deshek sé ché ku yi nyinjé ni
And in that moment when the sun-like sugatas and their heirs
dangpé yi khar sharwé mö dé la
Dawn within the clear, sky-like expanse of my own mind,
dang sé lé nyön münpé dé tsok kün
May all darkness of hostility, craving, karma and the afflictions
ming gi tar jé nangwé ngönsum du
Be banished entirely, and in that direct experience of light,
tongsum khyabpé rinchen jönshing drung
Before the jewelled tree that pervades the trichiliocosm,
gyalwé wangpo namdrol lhünpo ni
May I meet the lord of conquerors, liberation's pinnacle,
khakhyab shying du gyutrul rolmochen
Whose miraculously-made music reaches every realm,
jalwé yi kyi dungwa shyiwar shok
And may all the distress within my mind be pacified.

deshyin shekpé shyal gyi bum zang lé
May I learn of millions upon millions of means to enter the Dharma
mejung tekpa chok gi chö kyi go
Of the wondrous, sublime vehicle from the excellent, vase-like mouths
jewa trak gya tö shing dzinpa dang
Of the thus-gone buddhas and retain them all in my memory,
chok chü shying du trowar jé nü shok
And may I gain the power to enchant the realms of the ten directions.

gönpo khyé kyi nampar tarpa shyin
In accordance with your liberational life, O protector,
samyé shying du mizé jukpachen
May I too become one who enters unimaginable realms,
ming tsam töpé tsultrim namdak né
Whose name alone, when heard, brings purity of discipline,
ngensong künpang gyalwar dak gyur chik
And who is victorious, having entirely vanquished the lower realms.

tub chen lama dorjé mitrukpé
Through the unimpeded power of my mind,
shying der dak gi dulja malüpa
May I lead all those whom I must train
lo yi tob kyi tokpamé drang té
To the realm of the great sage and guide, Vajra Akṣobhya,
gyalwa gyalsé gyal tsö sar gö shok
And there bring them to the level of the buddhas and their heirs.

dorna deshyin shekpé ngöngé shying
In short, may I swiftly accomplish all the wonders
yongsu kö ching mönlam dzepa yi
Of the tathāgata who established the realm of Abhirati
ngotsar né kün dak gi nyur drub té
And made prayers of aspiration,
chö kyi gyalpö gopang tobpar shok
And may I attain the level of a Dharma sovereign.

Thus, the monk-follower of Śākya, Situ Chökyi Gyatso, made this aspiration in the isolated place
of Tashi Deden Ling. May virtue and excellence increase.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.

Source: Chos kyi rgya mtsho. "mngon dga'i smon lam dag zhing sgo 'byed/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 6: 467–468