Prayer to the Gurus of the Chöd Lineage
by Katok Situ Chökyi Gyatso

om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
chöku ying kyi yumchen la solwa deb
To the great mother of the expansive dharmakāya, I pray!
jinlab sem la jukpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so that inspiration infuses my mind!
longku dorjé pakmo la solwa deb
To the saṃbhogakāya Vajravārāhī, I pray!
tulku machik labdrön la solwa deb
To the nirmāṇakāya Machik Labdrön, I pray!
ha, dorjé rik kyi khandro la solwa deb
Ha, to the ḍākinīs of the vajra family, I pray!
ri, rinchen rik kyi khandro la solwa deb
Ri, to the ḍākinīs of the ratna family, I pray!
ni, pema rik kyi khandro la solwa deb
Ni, to the ḍākinīs of the padma family, I pray!
sa, lé kyi rik kyi khandro la solwa deb
Sa, to the ḍākinīs of the karma family, I pray!
bam, sangye rik kyi khandro la solwa deb
Baṃ, to the ḍākinīs of the buddha family, I pray!
pa gyü tab kyi gyüpa la solwa deb
To the lineage of the method-based father tantras, I pray!
magyü sherab kyi gyüpa la solwa deb
To the lineage of the wisdom-based mother tantras, I pray!
sé gyü nyamnyong gi gyüpa la solwa deb
To the lineage of the experience-based son tantras, I pray!
zabmo chö kyi gyüpa la solwa deb
To the lineage of profound Chöd practice, I pray!
gyu döchak shyedang timuk sum
The causes are the three of desire, anger and ignorance—
duk sum namtok yal du sol
May thoughts involving these three poisions fade away!
kyen po dön mo dön lu dön sum
The conditions are male spirits, female spirits and nāga-spirits—
dön sum namtok shyi gyur chik
May thoughts influenced by these three harmful spirits subside!
chöku longku tulku sum
Dharmakāya, saṃbhogakāya and nirmāṇakāya—
ku sum ngön du gyurwar shok
May I actualize these three buddha-bodies!
chi khordé kyi nangwa natsokpa
Outwardly, all the various appearances of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
nang rangsem tongpé rang tsal té
And inwardly, the natural expressions of my own empty mind—
dé tokta ümé ngö zungmé
They all lack beginning, middle or end and are intangible.
yul sem kyi zungdzin shyi tsadral
The dualistic perception of objects and mind is without basis or origin.
rangjung gi yeshe rangsal la
Within the natural self-illumination of spontaneously arising wisdom
panglang dang redok machipé
There is nothing to abandon or adopt, neither hope nor fear;
shi rangbab nyemmé soma la
So within this fresh and natural state, which is free from pride,
né cher tong rangdrol ngöngyur shok
May I nakedly perceive the crucial point and realize self-liberation!

Situ composed this by adding two verses to an older prayer to the Katok Chöd lineage.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.